# Retrospective

This project presented a series of learning opportunities and challenges throughout the build of the webpage. I determined early on that I wanted a simple, clean structure to the site rather than a series of features; the goal was clarity rather than fanciness. However, in my attempts to style my page and add additional features, I arrived at a series of challenges relating to spacing and the addition of screenshots of the HomeProof app, which I eventually determined to forego in the interest of completing the project on time. 

## What went well?

The building of the HTML and CSS code went well. During the planning stage, I determined early on that I didn't want to reinvent the wheel in terms of features, color schemes, or decorative elements. I simply wanted to ensure the website appeared clean, professional, and accurately provided a clear and concise explanation of the app development studio and the products I intend to build, starting with HomeProof. Building HomeProof is initially what inspired my interest in pursuing CMPA academically. It was created out of necessity, namely my divorce required a complete home inventory which would have taken a sizable number of man-hours if completed manually. Upon building the working prototype, I was inspired to learn more about how technical projects are managed and built from the ground up. Building this project, and my work throughout this course, have greatly assisted in that understanding. 

## What went wrong?

Styling the webpage became an obstacle. Despite my early determination to commit to a simple style and color scheme, I still found challenges in embedding certain elements that I determined did need a polished, professional appearance. In particular, sizing the three priorities and having them appear as desired required a significant amount of time in editing and previewing. Additionally, I had initially determined that I wanted screenshots of the HomeProof app in action. My attempts to embed photos into the webpage created a sizable amount of difficulty. I determined in advance I wanted to have the site built according to my liking, then I would add a section to the about page which contained the screenshots and an explanation of how the app worked. This proved to be more challenging than expected, particularly around appearance. When previewed, the screenshots made the site appear clunky and un-polished. Additionally, I found it difficult to add the screenshots and commentary in a manner which felt cohesive to the overall site. Eventually, I determined it would behoove the overall project to forego those screenshots and revisit adding them at a later date, when I plan to actually take the development studio live and thereby require the web presence to be fully fleshed out. A final area of difficulty arose around editing my own verbiage within the site. I wanted the copy to be simple, easy to understand, and digestible to the non-technical reader. This created a series of over-thinking issues around how each section should be worded. I regularly second-guessed my own verbiage - was it too simple? Was it not simple enough? A sizable amount of time was spent on these very basic questions, and had the project not had a rapidly approaching deadline I likely would have spiralled even further. Eventually, the words of Kogon & Blakemore won out: "Do you want it done, or *done* done?" I determined it needed to be done as the deadline was rapidly approaching, and simply had to accept the verbiage I had landed on was clear, concise, and acceptable.

## What would I do differently?

Knowing what I know now, I would make a few changes throughout my workflow. First, having determined early on that I wanted screenshots of the HomeProof app, I would have made them a larger area of focus from the jump rather than attempting to build the entire project, style it, and then add them after the fact. I had initially expected this approach would create a more cohesive workflow, but I found that attempting to embed the new elements added far more time to editing and previewing than I had anticipated. Had I embedded them from the jump, the issues I found with overall cohesion may have been solved thereby allowing me enough time to keep them. One additional area I would change is around styling. If I had more time, I'd like to have added more features, such as embedding a box with a scroll effect for the three priorities rather than have them stacked into their own individual elements. This would have added to the overall polish and professionalism of the appearance. Finally, I wish I had treated "Done vs. *done* done" with a greater deal of seriousness from the jump. While I felt I spent plenty of time in the planning stage, I found myself fighting scope creep as the project unfolded. I second-guessed a variety of details even after having them done, because I was aiming for "*done* done" without realizing I was doing so. Even as I write this retrospective, I find myself tempted to alter various elements within the project. This overthinking would almost certainly have continued had the project deadline not been rapidly approaching. Eventually, I simply had to determine that I had spent enough hours for the sake of the project and simply needed to get it into the repo for submission.
